Section : A
___________

Question 1: Based on the Agile SDLC model, explain when testing should begin in the sprint cycle,
define two entry criteria and two exit criteria you would propose for a sprint, and describe how
testing in an Agile model fundamentally differs from testing in the Waterfall model.

Answer:
In Agile, testing should start from the beginning of the sprint. Testing and coding are done together.

Entry Criteria:
1. The requirements are clear.
2. The testing setup is ready.

Exit Criteria:
1. All important tests are completed.
2. All major bugs are fixed.

Agile and Waterfall: In Agile, testing is done again and again during development. Testers and developers work together.
In Waterfall, testing is done after development is finished. So, bugs may be found late.

Question 2: Identify three non-functional testing types that are critical for this payment gateway
scenario and justify why each cannot be skipped. Then apply the relevant principle from the 7
Key Principles of Testing that explains why attempting to test every possible transaction
combination is not feasible

Answer:
1. Performance Testing:
It checks if the payment system can handle 5,000 users at one time without becoming slow or crashing.

2. Security Testing:
It checks if customer and payment details are safe from unauthorized people.

3. Reliability Testing:
It checks if the system can work properly for a long time without failing.

Testing Principle – Exhaustive Testing is Impossible:
It is not possible to test every possible transaction because there are too many combinations. So, testers should test the most important and risky cases.

Question 3: Using Equivalence Partitioning and Boundary Value Analysis, identify all valid and
invalid equivalence partitions for this field, list the exact boundary values, and explain which
technique offers better defect coverage for this specific scenario and why.

Answer: Valid Equivalence Partitions:

 -6–10 alphanumeric characters → Valid
 -Less than 6 characters → Invalid
 -More than 10 characters → Invalid
 -Special characters → Invalid

Boundary Values:

 -5 characters → Invalid
 -6 characters → Valid
 -10 characters → Valid
 -11 characters → Invalid

 Question 4: Classify both defects using the correct Severity and Priority labels from the
categories taught in class. Explain the difference between Severity and Priority using these two
defects as examples, and justify which defect must be fixed first — and why.

Answer:

Defect A:

Severity: High
Priority: High

The app crashes when users place an order.
It affects many users.

Defect B:

Severity: Low
Priority: Low

The logo is only a little misaligned.
The app still works normally.

Severity = How serious the problem is.
Priority = How quickly it should be fixed.

Defect A should be fixed first because it stops users from placing orders.

Question 5: Identify the two distinct types of testing that this scenario calls for, describe the
specific checks you would perform for each type, and name the tools or methods a QA tester
would use to efficiently replicate and document both issues.

Answer:

There are two types of testing:

1. Cross-Browser Testing
-Check the map on Chrome and Firefox.
-Make sure it works on both.
-Use Browser.

2. Responsive Testing
-Check the page at 768px.
-Make sure the page fits and works well.
-Use Chrome Dev Tools.

Question 6: Describe how you would use SQL to validate that the delivery address captured in the
UI was correctly stored in the database. Write the SQL query structure you would use, and explain
the difference between data verification and data validation in this context.

Answer:
SELECT user_id, address, city, pincode
FROM delivery_addresses
WHERE user_id = 101;

Expected Result:
The query should return the same address, city, and pincode that the user entered in the UI.

Difference
Data Verification: Checks whether the UI data is stored correctly in the database.
Data Validation: Checks whether the entered data is correct and follows required rules, such as valid pincode, required fields, and proper address format.

Example:
UI shows Ahmedabad, 380001 → Database should also contain Ahmedabad, 380001.


                                          Section B — Practical Testing Tasks
                                          ____________________________________

Task 1: Test Plan & Objectives — Login Module
---------------------------------------------

Prepare a structured test planning document for the Login feature of a food delivery web
application, covering test objectives, scope, and entry/exit criteria.
Define at least 4 measurable test objectives for the Login module, each aligned with a specific
STLC stage.
State the in-scope and out-of-scope items for this testing cycle — minimum 3 items in each
category.
Define entry criteria and exit criteria for the Login module test cycle — minimum 2 criteria each.
Identify 3 risks associated with testing the Login module and propose one concrete mitigation
strategy for each risk.

Answer:

Login Module – Test Plan

1. Test Objectives
Check that valid users can log in successfully.
Check that invalid login details show proper errors.
Check that mandatory fields are validated.
Ensure all critical login test cases pass before release.

2. Scope

In-Scope:
Valid login
Invalid login
Blank fields and error messages
Password masking

Out-of-Scope:
Food ordering
Payment
Delivery tracking

3. Entry Criteria
Login requirements are approved.
Test environment and build are ready.
Test data/accounts are available.

4. Exit Criteria
All critical test cases are executed.
All critical test cases pass.
No critical defects are open.

5. Risks & Mitigation
Risk                  	                                  Mitigation
Test environment is down               	Inform the team and restore it before testing.
OTP service fails                      	Use test accounts/OTP.
Security issue occurs	                  Perform basic security testing and fix critical issues.


Task 2: EP & BVA Test Cases — Delivery Address Form
---------------------------------------------------

Apply Equivalence Partitioning and Boundary Value Analysis to write a structured set of test
cases for the delivery address form of the food delivery application.
Identify all valid and invalid equivalence partitions for the 'Pincode' field (6-digit numeric only)
and the 'Phone Number' field (10-digit numeric only).
Determine all boundary values for both fields and map each boundary value to a dedicated
test case.
Write a minimum of 12 test cases in standard format: Test Case ID, Description, Input Data,
Expected Result, Pass/Fail.
Tag each test case with the technique applied (EP or BVA) and whether it is a positive or
negative test case.

Answer:
Delivery Address –  Test Cases
Equivalence Partitions

Pincode
Valid: 6 digits
Invalid: Less than 6 digits
Invalid: More than 6 digits
Invalid: Letters/special characters
Invalid: Blank

Phone Number
Valid: 10 digits
Invalid: Less than 10 digits
Invalid: More than 10 digits
Invalid: Letters/special characters
Invalid: Blank

Boundary Values
Pincode: 5, 6, 7 digits
Phone: 9, 10, 11 digits

TC         ID	Description	                Input         	Expected Result        	P/F      	    Technique
TC01      	Valid pincode	                 380001        	Accepted               	Pass         	EP - Positive
TC02      	5-digit pincode     	          38000	         Error	                  Pass         	BVA - Negative
TC03	      7-digit pincode	               3800012	       Error                  	Pass         	BVA - Negative
TC04      	Pincode with letters    	      38A001	        Error                  	Pass         	EP - Negative
TC05      	Pincode blank	                 Blank	         Error                  	Pass         	EP - Negative
TC06      	Valid phone             	      9876543210    	Accepted               	Pass	         EP - Positive
TC07	      9-digit phone	                 987654321	     Error	                  Pass         	BVA - Negative
TC08	      11-digit phone	                98765432101   	Error	                  Pass         	BVA - Negative
TC09      	Phone with letters            	98765AB210	    Error                  	Pass	         EP - Negative
TC10      	Phone with special character  	98765@3210    	Error                  	Pass         	EP - Negative
TC11	      Phone blank                   	Blank	         Error                  	Pass         	EP - Negative
TC12	      Valid pincode boundary	        100000        	Accepted               	Pass	         BVA - Positive


Task 3: Requirements Traceability Matrix — Order Placement Flow
---------------------------------------------------------------

Create a Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) for the Order Placement feature of the food
delivery application, linking functional requirements to test scenarios and defects.
List 6 functional requirements for the Order Placement flow — for example: add item to cart,
apply coupon, select payment method, place order, view confirmation screen, check order
history.
Write 2 test scenarios per requirement (12 scenarios total), each assigned a unique Scenario
ID.
Build the RTM table in forward traceability format: Requirement ID › Test Scenario IDs.
Add a 'Defect ID' column and log at least 3 hypothetical defects against the appropriate
requirements, classifying each by severity level (S1–S4) with a one-line description.

Answer:
RTM – Order Placement
Req      ID	Requirement	       Test Scenarios	    Defect ID
R01	     Add item to cart     	TS01, TS02        	D01 – S2
R02	     Apply coupon	         TS03, TS04        	D02 – S3
R03     	Select payment       	TS05, TS06	            —
R04     	Place order          	TS07, TS08	        D03 – S1
R05     	View confirmation	    TS09, TS10            	—
R06     	View order history	   TS11, TS12            	—

Test Scenarios
TS01: Add one item to cart.
TS02: Add multiple items and check quantity.
TS03: Apply a valid coupon.
TS04: Apply an invalid coupon.
TS05: Select Cash on Delivery.
TS06: Select online payment.
TS07: Place an order with valid details.
TS08: Place an order with missing details.
TS09: Check confirmation screen.
TS10: Check order ID on confirmation screen.
TS11: Check previous orders in history.
TS12: Check new order in history.

Defects
D01 – S2: Cart quantity is not updated.
D02 – S3: Wrong coupon discount is applied.
D03 – S1: Payment is deducted twice.

Traceability: Requirement → Test Scenario → Defect.


Task 4: Web & Database Testing — Checkout Page
----------------------------------------------

Perform a structured multi-technique testing exercise on the Checkout page of a food delivery web application, combining web UI testing, cross-browser validation, SQL-based backend verification, and defect reporting.
List 5 specific web application test checks for the Checkout page, covering form validation, navigation links, data submission behaviour, UI element rendering, and error message handling. 
Write 3 cross-browser test scenarios confirming that the Checkout page behaves identically across Chrome, Firefox, and Edge — note any expected rendering differences.  
Write 3 SQL SELECT queries to validate that the order total, applied coupon code, and selected payment method stored in the database exactly match what was displayed on the Checkout UI. 
Prepare a complete defect report for one hypothetical UI–DB mismatch found during this exercise: include Steps to Reproduce, Expected Result, Actual Result, Severity, and Priority

Answer:

1. Web Testing – 5 Checks

No.	                            Check	                            Expected Result
1	                      Check blank/invalid address	             Error message shown
2	                      Click Back/Cart link	                   Correct page opens
3	                      Click Place Order	                       Order is submitted
4                      	Check buttons, price and payment         All display correctly
                         option
5	                      Enter invalid data	                     Proper error message shown

2. Cross-Browser Testing

No.	                          Scenario	               Chrome	           Firefox	           Edge
1                         Open Checkout page	          Pass	             Pass	             Pass
2                        	Enter details and place order	Pass	             Pass	             Pass
3	                        Check price and buttons	      Pass	             Pass              Pass

Expected: Page should work the same in all browsers.
Difference: Small font or spacing differences may occur.

3. SQL Queries
Order Total
SELECT order_total
FROM orders
WHERE order_id = 1001;
Coupon Code
SELECT coupon_code
FROM orders
WHERE order_id = 1001;
Payment Method
SELECT payment_method
FROM orders
WHERE order_id = 1001;

Expected: Database values should match the values shown on the Checkout page.

4. Defect Report
Bug ID: BUG-001
Title: Order total mismatch between UI and database

Steps:
Login.
Add product to cart.
Go to Checkout.
Note the order total.
Place the order.
Check the database.

Expected: UI and DB total should be the same.
Actual: UI shows ₹500, but DB shows ₹550.

Severity: High
Priority: High

                                           Section C — Mini Capstone Project
                                           _________________________________

Mini Project: End-to-End Manual Testing Project — Food Delivery Web Portal
Objective:

Conduct a complete manual testing lifecycle for the food delivery web portal, integrating test
planning (Module 1), test case design and defect management (Module 2), and live web
application testing with SQL-based database validation (Module 3) into a single end-to-end
test pack covering the user journey: Registration › Login › Browse Restaurants › Place Order › Track 
Order.

Your project must:
Prepare a one-page test plan covering test objectives, scope (in-scope and out-of-scope),
entry/exit criteria, and at least 3 identified risks with mitigations for the defined user journey.
Write a minimum of 20 test cases for the user journey using a mix of Black Box techniques —
Equivalence Partitioning and Boundary Value Analysis for input fields, and a Decision Table for
at least one conditional flow such as coupon eligibility or payment method selection.
Build a complete RTM linking all functional requirements of the user journey to their test cases
and to any defects discovered, using a forward traceability format.
Perform live web testing on the portal (or a comparable public e-commerce site) and log at
least 5 defects using a standard bug report template — each defect entry must include Defect
ID, Module, Steps to Reproduce, Expected Result, Actual Result, Severity, and Priority.
Write 5 SQL SELECT queries to perform backend data validation for the Registration and Order
Placement flows, and include a one-line comment above each query explaining what it is
verifying and what the expected result should be.


Answer:

Mini Capstone Project – Food Delivery App
1. Test Plan

User Flow: Registration → Login → Browse → Place Order → Track Order

Objectives:
Check user registration.
Check login.
Check restaurant search.
Check order placement.
Check order tracking.

In-Scope:
Registration
Login
Restaurant search
Cart and order
Payment and tracking

Out-of-Scope:
Admin panel
Restaurant owner panel
Refund
Delivery partner system

Entry Criteria:
Website is available.
Requirements and test data are ready.

Exit Criteria:
All test cases are completed.
Major bugs are fixed.

Risks & Solutions:
Risk	                              Solution
Website may be down         	Check website before testing
Test data may be wrong	      Prepare correct test data
Payment may fail	            Use test payment details

2. Test Cases:
ID	                       Test Case	                           Input	                Expected Result	               Technique
TC01                 	Valid registration	                     Valid details	           Account created	                EP
TC02	                Invalid email	                              riya@	                Error shown	                      EP
TC03	                Blank name	                                Blank	                Error shown	                      EP
TC04                	9-digit phone                             987654321	               Error shown                      BVA
TC05	                10-digit phone	                          9876543210	             Accepted	                        BVA
TC06	                Valid login	                              Valid details           Login successful	                 EP
TC07	                Wrong password	                          Wrong password	        Error shown	                       EP
TC08	                Blank login                             	Blank	                  Error shown	                       EP
TC09	                Search restaurant	                        Pizza	                  Results shown	                     EP
TC10	                Invalid search	                          XYZ123	                No result	                         EP
TC11	                Open restaurant                          	Select restaurant	      Page opens                         EP
TC12	                Add food	                                Pizza                  	Added to cart                      EP
TC13                	Add multiple food                        	3 items                	Items added	                       EP
TC14                 	Valid coupon	                            SAVE20	                Discount applied	                 EP
TC15                 	Invalid coupon	                          ABC123	                Error shown	                       EP
TC16                	Select payment	                          UPI	                    UPI selected	                     EP
TC17                	Place order                              	Valid details          	Order placed	                     EP
TC18                	Missing address                          	Blank	                  Error shown	                       EP
TC19                 	Order confirmation	                      Successful order	      Order ID shown	                   EP
TC20                	Track order	                              Order ID	              Status shown	                     EP

3. Decision Table – Coupon

Condition                                                    	Result
Valid coupon + minimum amount reached                   	Discount applied
Invalid coupon	                                          Error shown
Valid coupon + minimum amount not reached	                Error shown

4. RTM
Req ID	                         Requirement	                     Test Cases                 	Defect
R01                           	 Registration	                     TC01-TC05	                   D01
R02	                             Login	                           TC06-TC08	                   D02
R03	                             Browse	                           TC09-TC11	                   D03
R04	                             Cart/Coupon	                     TC12-TC15	                   D04
R05                              Payment/Order	                   TC16-TC18	                   D05
R06	                             Confirmation/Tracking	           TC19-TC20	                    —

5. Defect Reports
D01 – Registration
Module: Registration
Steps: Enter valid details → Click Register
Expected: Account created
Actual: Account not created
Severity: High
Priority: High

D02 – Login
Module: Login
Steps: Enter valid login details → Login
Expected: User logged in
Actual: Error displayed
Severity: High
Priority: High

D03 – Restaurant Search
Module: Search
Steps: Search Pizza
Expected: Pizza restaurants shown
Actual: No results
Severity: Medium
Priority: Medium\

D04 – Coupon
Module: Coupon
Steps: Apply valid coupon
Expected: Discount applied
Actual: Discount not applied
Severity: Medium
Priority: High

D05 – Order
Module: Order
Steps: Place order
Expected: One order created
Actual: Two orders created
Severity: Critical
Priority: High

6. SQL Queries
7. Check registered user
-- Verify that Riya is saved in the database.
SELECT * FROM users
WHERE email = 'riya@gmail.com';

Expected: Riya's record is displayed.

2. Check phone number
-- Verify the registered phone number.
SELECT phone FROM users
WHERE email = 'riya@gmail.com';

Expected: 9876543210 is displayed.

3. Check order
-- Verify that the user's order is saved.
SELECT * FROM orders
WHERE user_id = 101;

Expected: Order record is displayed.

4. Check coupon
-- Verify the coupon used for the order.
SELECT coupon_code FROM orders
WHERE order_id = 1001;

Expected: Correct coupon code is displayed.

5. Check payment
-- Verify the selected payment method.
SELECT payment_method FROM orders
WHERE order_id = 1001;

Expected: Selected payment method is displayed.

                                       Section D — AI-Augmented Learning
                                       _________________________________

STEP 1 · BUILD WITH AI
Use an AI tool of your choice (ChatGPT, Claude, GitHub Copilot, etc.) to help you generate test
cases for the following scenario:
The food delivery app has a 'Schedule Order' feature that allows users to place orders up to 7
days in advance. Ask the AI to write 10 test cases for this feature, covering valid future
date/time scheduling, invalid inputs (past time, more than 7 days ahead, invalid date format),
and order confirmation notification behaviour.
The AI-generated test cases must follow the standard format: Test Case ID, Description, Test
Steps, Expected Result.
Review the AI's test cases specifically for boundary condition coverage on the 7-day
scheduling window, and check whether negative test cases for invalid date formats (e.g. 31st
of a 30-day month, Feb 30) are included.
Correct any gaps yourself: add at least 3 test cases the AI missed or got wrong, and fix any
incorrect expected results — clearly marking your additions and changes.
STEP 2 · TEST & DEBUG (WITHOUT AI)
Then, working without AI, review the full combined test set and write a short critique: identify
one assumption the AI made that a real QA tester would not make, and explain why human
judgment cannot be fully replaced in test case design.

SUBMIT All 3 items required
1 The exact prompt(s) you gave the AI tool.
2 The AI's original test cases alongside your corrected and extended version, with your
additions and changes clearly marked.
3 A 3–4 line note explaining what gaps you found, what you changed, and why the AI's
version needed correction.

Answer:
1. AI Prompt
Give me 10 simple test cases for the Schedule Order feature of a food delivery app. The user can schedule an order up to 7 days ahead. Include valid date/time, past date/time, more than 7 days, invalid dates, and notification. Use Test Case ID, Description, Test Steps, Expected Result.

2. AI Test Cases

ID                             	Description	                             Expected Result
TC01	                      Schedule tomorrow                         	Order scheduled
TC02	                      Schedule 3 days later	                      Order scheduled
TC03                      	Schedule 7 days later                      	Order scheduled
TC04	                      Schedule 8 days later                       Error shown
TC05	                      Select past date	                          Error shown
TC06	                      Select past time	                          Error shown
TC07                      	Enter invalid date	                        Error shown
TC08	                      Schedule valid order	                      Confirmation shown
TC09	                      Schedule valid order                      	Notification received
TC10	                      Schedule 1 day later	                      Order scheduled

3. Added/Changed Cases

ID	                             Status                         Test Case	                           Expected Result
TC11	                           ADDED	                       Enter Feb 30                           	Error shown
TC12                           	 ADDED	                       Enter April 31	                          Error shown
TC13	                           ADDED	                       Schedule more than 7 days	              Error shown
TC14	                          CHANGED	                       Select current/past time	                Error shown

4. Short Note
AI missed Feb 30 and April 31 cases.
I added these cases and checked the 7-day limit.
AI also did not clearly check the exact time at the 7-day boundary.
Human testers are needed to find real-world and unusual cases.









